README 

CAPRICORN TEXT EDITOR 
    Capricorn text editor is a project created by William Nordqvist, Oliver Vasquez, Jonathan Silkewall and Nina Hedman. 
    This was the first group project that we got assigned from KYH Front-end development school. 

The main focus with the project was to create a web based text editor with a focus on agile work methodic.

Our requirements for the project was the following: 
    1. Adjusted for Chrome, Firefox and Safari browser for both desktop and mobile.
    2. Responsive design and needs to work on all mobile devices, desktops and 4k displays.
    3. HTML5 and CSS3.
    4. No frameworks such as JQuery, Reach, Angular etc.
    5. Semantic HTML, SEO and accessibility optimized.


Current files are used for the project. 
    index.html - HTML with the whole structure for the editor (semantic) 

    mobile.css -  CSS for mobile design
    layout.css - CSS for desktop and 4k displays
    print.css - CSS for content adjustments for print
    forrest.css - CSS for the theme Forrest
    fire.css - CSS for the theme Fire
    water.css - CSS for the theme Water
    space.css - CSS for the theme Space
    
    index.js - Javascript where setup functions are called and all eventlisteners are initialised
    handleNote.js - Javascript with all function for the editor
    nav.js -  Javascript with functions for nav in mobile mode
    tutorial.js - Javascript with functions for the initial tutorial

UX/UI 
    The ground components in the editor are built up with grid layout where we tried to work as modular as possible.
    Following are the comonents of the editor

    Searchfield - a field where the user can search for a keyword that listens to keyUp event. The note list will be filtered based on the content in each note.

    Menu - all the icons related to functions.
        New page Icon - This icon allows the user to create a new document.
        Star icon - This icons filters on all the favorite marked notes.
        Theme icon - This icons open up a new window where the user can choose between 5 different themes to work with. Every theme has its own background picture and font family. 
        Print icon - This icon allows the user to print the current note, background included if wanted
        Trashcan - This icon deletes all the note. 

    NoteList - The note list is the container that stores all the different articles. 
        You can save as many notes as you want (or as many your browser allows you to). All the notes will be saved in your browsers local storage. 
        The whole note list is saved in one array, each note is then saved in one Object. 
        Each object contains following keys:
            Object active - Boolean. Value to determine weither the note is the current note. The note in the note list will then change background color to show that this is the current note. 
            Object dateTime - Contains date where the article was last saved. 
            Object Fave - Boolean. To mark if the user has marked this as a favourite article. All article that is marked true here will be filtered out when the user clicks on the Star icon. 
            Object ID - Sets the article ID. This comes handful for us as developers when we need to grab a specific article in a function etc. 
            Object text - Saves the text that contains in the editor. 
            Object title - Stores the first line in the editor that then will be displayed as a title in the noteList. 

    Toolbar - The editor toolbar is a toolbar that we borrowed directly from "https://quilljs.com/". We could manually adjust what we wanted it to contain. 
    We choose to have:
        Font size editor where the user can choose between heading1, heading2 or normal text.
        Bolded text. 
        Italics text. 
        Underlined text.   
        Left, centre or right justify text. 
        Order lists. 
        Unordered list. 
        Attach pictures. 
        Save button. 

        Editor - The editor is the biggest component of the site and where is the user writes it´s text. 
        We borrowed the editor from "https://quilljs.com/".


Link to Trello 
https://trello.com/b/p7xqy1Y3/capricorn






